RITIK AGARWAL 
Mumbai, IN | P:+91-9820857214 | ritik06agarwal@gmail.com | LinkedIn | GitHub | CodeChef | LeetCode 
 
A dedicated and adaptable individual with hands-on experience in machine learning, deep learning, and data analytics. 
Skilled in software development and problem-solving, with strong foundation in telecom systems and automation. Seeking 
to leverage academic knowledge and practical experience to contribute to innovative projects in AI, ML, and data science. 
EDUCATION  
 
 
Vellore Institute of Technology, 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 
Bachelor of Technology in Computer Science Engineering 
Jun 2019 – Jul-2023 
CGPA: 8.87/10 
Shubham Raje Junior College 
Mumbai, Maharashtra 
Higher Secondary School Certificate (Maharashtra Board) 
Jul 2016 - Jul 2018 
Result: 73.85% 
Amity High School 
Bharuch, Gujarat 
Secondary School Certificate (CBSE) 
Jul 2014 - Jul 2016 
CGPA: 8.6/10 
 
WORK EXPERIENCE 
 
 
 
AMDOCS  
Pune, Maharashtra 
Software Developer  
Jun 2023 - Present 
Working in a global delivery team, implementing complex solutions for telecom companies like A1 Croatia, PPF, VEON, 
Vodafone Ukraine, and Azercell. 
• 
Contributing to the design and maintenance of Rating and Charging systems. 
• 
Specializing in implementing complex rate calculation algorithms, optimizing processes, and ensuring seamless system 
integration. 
• 
Engaged in automation tools creation using AI, along with integrating machine learning models to optimize workflow. 
• 
Proficient in Unix, SQL, HBase, Kubernetes, API Testing, and defect resolution. 
 
YOKOHAMA OFF-HIGHWAY TIRES 
Mumbai, Maharashtra 
Business Intelligence Intern 
Jun 2022 – Dec 2022 
• 
Conducted predictive analysis based on manufacturing data across two plants, using Python and SQL to analyze data 
patterns and provide actionable insights for operational improvements. 
• 
Analyzed key logistics metrics such as truck in-time, out-time, time to reach the shipyard, and number of tires loaded per 
truck to optimize loading processes and reduce inefficiencies 
 
UNIVERSITY PROJECTS 
 
Smart Contactless Airport Baggage Management and Handling System 
• 
Designed and implemented a contactless baggage management system using RFID and computer vision to streamline 
baggage handling in airports. 
• 
Published research in Scalable and Distributed Machine Learning and Deep Learning Patterns’ on the system's effectiveness 
in airport logistics. 
Road Accident Analysis and Visualization 
• 
Developed an R Shiny Dashboard web app to analyze and visualize Indian road accident data. 
• 
Predicted accident rates based on weather, road conditions, and vehicle defects. 
Indian Railways Network Analysis 
• 
Analyzed the structure and efficiency of the Indian Railways network using graph theory to provide insights on optimization 
and route management. 
 
ACTIVITIES  
 
 
Fine Arts Club, VIT Chennai 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 
Member 
 
Aug 2019 – Present 
● 
Created artworks for VIT cultural fest ‘ VIBRANCE 2020’ and technical fest ‘ TECHNOVIT 2019’ 
 
HackClub, VIT Chennai 
Chennai, Tamil Nadu 
Event Coordinator 
Jan-2021– Dec 2021 
● 
Managed and Organized Valorant Gaming Tournament with over 100 participants for 3 days in HACKCLASH event. 
 
 
 

ADDITIONAL 
 
 
 
Technical Skills: 
• Programming: Python, R, SQL, Java 
• Data Science & Analytics: Machine Learning, Deep Learning, NLP, Data Analysis 
• Tools & Technologies: Git, Jupyter, R Studio, Streamlit, Automation Tools, Unix, HBase, Kubernetes, API Testing 
• Additional Skills: Problem Solving, AI-driven Automation, System Integration, Communication, Leadership, Sketching 
Certifications: 
• PCEP™ – Certified Entry-Level Python Programmer 
• Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate 
Research Publications: 
• Smart Contactless Airport Baggage Management and Handling System, published in Scalable and Distributed Machine 
Learning and Deep Learning Patterns